If there is one thing that is universally known about otters, it is that they are the most
practical and sensible of all creatures. But in addition to practicality and sensibility,
otters also count long suffering and generosity among their many virtues. And so it is
that otters sometimes decide to live among very unsensible creatures in order to more
conveniently lend their sensibility to the world. This is how a whole pod of perfectly
sensible otters came to live with two very impractical humans. Our story is how one of
them in particular, the littlest otter, came to find a home with the pod, make new
friends, save the lives of the humans, and eventually earn a name. But before we talk
about him, we must first talk about how the three original otters met the humans and
became a pod.

The first otter met the humans when they were in New Orleans. Our Humans had met only a
year before and become quite fond of each other, and so as humans who are fond of each
other do, they traveled to a strange city together. While they were in New Orleans they
spent a day at the aquarium, where they met a sea otter. The sea otter was from
California, and had left a large and crowded family pod to explore far away coasts and
sample shellfish along the way. Being a practical creature, this otter had packed lightly.
The only possession that she carried on her journey was a dried starfish.

You see, sea otters sleep in groups, holding hands so they don't float away. This is a
very sensible way to sleep in the ocean, but holding hands is not strictly necessary for
sea otters that travel inland. Still, they get so used to sleeping with something in their
paws that sojourning sea otters will often take a memento of home with them just so they
have something to hold on to. It leads to much better sleep when traveling, and is much
more practical than bringing an entire pod with you.

This otter with a starfish quickly became fond of the humans. She had enjoyed her tour of
the East Coast, but was tired of traveling, and it was time for a place to settle down.
The female human wanted to take her home, so the man made arrangements to bring her.
She enjoyed the new home, and quickly made friends with the snow leopard that lived on the
top of the book shelf and the two cats that roamed the woman's house. At night she kept
the woman company, and they held hands so they would both sleep better, and neither of
them would float away. During the day the sea otter would talk to the cats, lounge on the
bed, write letters home to her family, and occupy herself with other such otterly
pursuits. It was a peaceful and welcome relief after spending most of her life with a
large, boisterous and noisy family pod.

Life went on like this for several years, with the sea otter dispensing sensible advice to
the cats, and telling sensible stories to Snow Leopard, and providing sensible comfort to
her woman whenever she was sad or frustrated. Eventually, though, she started to miss
having the company of other sensible and practical creatures. So she mentioned this to the
man and the woman, and they agreed that it was reasonable to want another otter around,
because after all, otters are very useful creatures.

So one day, when the man and the woman were traveling to Pensacola, as humans who are fond
of each other do, they thought about how they found the sea otter in New Orleans, and
decided to try and find another sea otter. But no matter how hard they looked, no
sojourning sea otters were to be found. But the next day, while visiting the zoo, a river
otter approached them to ask for directions. The river otter was making its way north, and
so the humans offered it a ride. During the trip back north, the river otter and the sea
otter became fast friends, and so the river otter came to live with the sea otter, and any
time the river otter felt nostalgic for Pensacola, the sea otter would share her starfish.
Now as the humans spent more and more time together, they also became quite fond of having
otters around, and came to rely quite heavily on their sensible and practical company. So
one day in Chattanooga, when they were traveling together as humans who are fond of each
other do, the man took the woman to the Aquarium. They stopped at one place because there
were benches and because there were otters, making it a very sensible place to sit. You
see, the man wanted to give the woman a ring, as humans who are extremely, inordinately
fond of each other do, and ask her to be a pod with him. He had consulted the river otter
and the sea otter for advice, and they had told him that the most sensible place would be
somewhere with a bench that they could sit, and a place with otters since that would make
the woman happy.

The woman liked the spot very much, and so she accepted the ring, and told the man that
she would like to be a pod with him, and cried a lot (which is not very sensible, but is a
thing that humans sometimes do when they are very happy or very sad). This drew the
attention of the otters, who had been running and playing, but one of them in particular
kept watching the humans, since they were being quite silly and entertaining to watch.
Eventually the humans talked to the brown river otter, and the otter made friends with
them. The otter decided that if the humans were going to be that ridiculous in public,
then clearly they were in need of some good sensible otterly advice to help them start
their new pod. He determined to go home with them, and was pleased to discover two
imminently practical otters already there.

Now, otters have a saying, "three is a pod." This is from an archaic expression about the
best number of otters to have for highest efficiency at being sensible: "one otter is
effective, two is redundant, and three is a pod." However it was discovered that two
otters are not in fact redundant, as long as they are sufficiently different from each
other, so now most otters only remember the part about three being a pod. Since they were
now three in number, the otters decided that they were now a pod.

One of the ways that otter practicality shines through, is their clever and sensible
approach to names. When there is just one otter, having a name is not very useful. When
there are two otters, they get by without names, because each one knows who they are, and
each one knows who the other is, and each knows that if they are not talking to themself,
then they must be talking to the other. But once there are three otters, suddenly names
become important. In the case of the newly formed pod, they held an Ottenmoot, which is a
formal gathering of otters where important decisions can be made. It was decided that the
newest otter, who met the humans in Chattanooga, should go by the name Small Otter, since
it was the smallest of the three. Similarly, it was decided that the river otter from
Pensacola should be called Medium Otter, since it was bigger than Small Otter, but not as
big as the sea otter. Finally, it was decided that the best name for the sea otter would
be Starfish Otter, since she always carried her keepsake starfish with her.

And so, that is the story of how The Pod was formed. Or at least the Otter Pod. The humans
had to wait two more years to become a pod because there was a great plague, and so no
humans could do anything. But that plague, and the big human event, is the promised story
of how the littlest otter came to meet The Pod.
