It was a sunny day in the middle of Autumn, and the littlest otter was swimming up river.
Of course, the littlest otter didn't have a name at the moment because he didn't have a
pod. But for the convenience of our human readers, who are forgetful creatures and require
names for anything important in order to remember that they exist, we will for the moment
call him the littlest otter.

The river was small. Just large enough that an otter could sensibly frolic across the
width without stopping to worry about its size. The gentle current posed little challenge,
and so the little otter would casually swim, pause to pry loose a freshwater clam here and
there, and occasionally climb out of the water to sun himself on a limestone outcrop or
nap in a convenient cave. He had traveled this way for many days, and was searching for
some place where he would belong.

Nowhere ever seemed to be a good place for very small otters with big ideas. Everywhere he
stayed too long people would complain that he had too much energy, or say that he "caused
trouble" with his ideas for games, or even accuse him of "looking for trouble" when he got
bored. What was a young otter with big ideas supposed to do in a world that didn't care
how sensible or practical a game was, only that it was different and therefore bad. But he
was in no hurry to settle down anywhere, having become quite used to keeping his own
company. And until he found a place to live where the creatures didn't mind his ideas, he
was perfectly happy to settle for the occasional adventure here and there whenever someone
needed his help. This is why the littlest otter left the river on that sunny Autumn day to
investigate a Commotion.

He clambered up a hill with big overhanging oak and black walnut trees. There were wild
blackberry bushes with razor sharp thorns, but his claws were nimble and his fur thick, so
they didn't bother him. The littlest otter saw big white sheets through the foliage in the
distance, so he kept climbing up the hill. The trees stopped abruptly, and the littlest
otter observed a well kept lawn. Not knowing what might be going on, he sensibly stayed
hiding in the thick brush that grew in among the trees, and observed the people in the
yard. There were about a half dozen humans, and they were setting up enormous tents, with
thick white canopies and sides that were tied to big metal poles. Inside the tents he
could see all kinds of decorations. There were brass lanterns with glass sides and giant
candles inside. There were enormous white Magnolia flowers with some smaller burgundy ones
for accent, and there were twenty tables under the two tents, each with a different set of
decorations on it. This was such an enormous amount of effort for humans, and the littlest
otter had never seen anything like it!

Just then, the littlest otter heard a crash up the hill. He looked to the top of the hill
where there was a house for humans. The back of the house was facing him, and had stairs
leading up to a porch with a door. At the bottom of the stairs he saw three otters
gathered around some object. Three other otters! This was worth investigating! He sprinted
off along the edge of the trees hoping to get closer to the other otters without going
across the yard or being seen by humans.

As he moved through the brush, he started to worry, though. Would the other otters talk to
him about what they were doing, or would they be grumpy that another otter was sneaking
through their yard? Would they like him for being friendly, or would they think he was
making trouble by investigating? He decided it was best not to worry about what the otters
would think of him. He would find out soon enough, and it might be the case that they
could use his help. Of all the things the littlest otter liked to do, his absolute
favorite was being helpful in a sensible and practical way.

Once he got close enough to the collection of otters looking at the object, he bounded out
of the woods. The largest of the other otters noticed him immediately, and they all turned
to look at him. The littlest otter greeted them in the formal way that otters greet each
other when on a sojourn, and mentioned that he left the river to investigate because he
was curious why so many humans would be doing a great outdoor thing, when they usually do
things in buildings like the one they were all standing next to.

At this, the other otters perked up and became excited. They explained that their humans
had decided to be a pod. For otters, pod-ness is a thing to be decided formally, and once
decided it is done. But humans are forgetful creatures, and so they have to make a very
big deal out of anything important so that they don't forget it. And they have to invite
many other humans to experience the big event as well, so that way even if several of them
forget the important thing, the others can remind them that it happened. Thus, once humans
decide to be a pod through their formal ritual of offering rings in a suitable location,
they still have to do something with all their relatives and friends to make sure that
they don't forget how they have been podded.

This made sense to the littlest otter, so he nodded attentively. The requirement of having
other humans involved seemed very impractical to the littlest otter. But on the other
hand, if humans were really so forgetful, it might be a sensible way of doing things, even
if it were not a practical one. These otters clearly had a lot to teach the littlest
otter!

The littlest otter looked back at the tents, and then he looked at the colander and the
pile of rocks scattered around the brick patio where they were all standing. He was very
interested in what the new otters were trying to accomplish. His curiosity showed, and the
new otters explained that they were trying to solve a problem for the humans. It turns out
that flowers are extremely important for the ritual of pod-remembering, but this
collection of flowers all had stems too long to fit in the container that was intended to
show them off. The otters had taken it upon themselves to try and remedy the problem by
shortening the stems so they would fit better into the container.

Flower stems are tough and woody, so shortening them is not a trivial task. Humans have
lots of very useful tools to help with this difficulty, but unfortunately most of those
tools are designed for use by humans without thought to how other creatures might have to
make use of those tools. In this case, the otters had taken the tool that their humans
used for flowers, a two-sided cutting tool known a "scissors," and sensibly tried to apply
the force needed to make the device work. This involved placing flower stems between the
cutting surfaces of the “scissors" and then dropping a heavy weight onto the lever end of
the “scissors.” The only weight they could move reliably up the stairs was a colander full
of rocks.

The otters had tried this three times, and all three times the result had been mixed.
Whenever the otters had tried to cut multiple stems at the same time, the "scissors"
partially cut two or three out of ten stems placed between the cutting surfaces. The one
time the otters had tried cutting a single stem, it had cut clean and fit into the
container quite nicely. But it was so much work to drag all the rocks up the stairs so
they could chop only a single stem! So the otters were trying to figure out how to cut
many stems at the same time. But the "scissors" never worked for more than two stems at a
single time when they dropped a colander of rocks. If that is the best rate of cutting
stems, it would be several days before the otters could finish cutting all the stems for
all the flowers!

But more than that, there were several other tasks the otters needed to take care of
before the big event the next day. The littlest otter began to think about the problem of
cutting stems. It was tough, and he liked challenges! These new otters seemed very nice,
and the littlest otter liked how helpful they seemed to be for their humans and for each
other. So he asked if they would like for him to help with the tasks they had to
accomplish.

The otters all looked at one another, and it was generally acknowledged that an extra pair
of paws would be very practical, and that they would all be very appreciative of some
help. The littlest otter excitedly turned himself in a circle. He was sure that if he
thought about it for a while he could come up with an interesting solution to the problem
of cutting stems. In the meantime, he asked about the other tasks that still needed to be
accomplished.

The new otters explained that the first task was to carry the end of a thick power cord
from the house down to the tents on the grass. The path had to go underneath a long row of
bushes along the fence. They had measured, and it was at least 150 Medium Otters long! The
cord would reach, but it was very heavy, and none of the otters could move it by
themselves. The second task was to search the garage for all the lanterns to go out in the
tent for extra lighting. The tent already had some strings of lights up high, but the
otters were sure that would not be enough, so they were sensibly going to make sure the
lanterns were there as well. There were four lanterns in the garage, but no one remembered
where they were. The final task had to do with the white cloths draped over the tables in
the big tents. Every table had some decoration on it, but the otters were skeptical that
this would hold the white cloths adequately if the wind blew at all. So they were planning
to attach the tablecloths to the table with something more sensible.

The littlest otter agreed that was a lot of work to be done! The littlest otter suggested
that maybe they should start working on some of the other tasks, and maybe one of them
would think of another way to cut all the stems, and it was generally agreed that this was
a sensible idea. So Small Otter led them over the wall of the house where there was a plug
hidden behind a metal trap door. On the ground was a giant coil of thick green cable, with
a plug at either end. The littlest otter could see immediately the path underneath the
bushes that had been described. They would have to take the cord down the side of the
house until they ran into the fence, and then make a sharp left turn to go under the
bushes.

Medium Otter plugged one end of the cable into the wall, and then all four otters began
moving the enormous roll of cable along the wall and toward the bushes. It was slow work,
and all the otters became tired very quickly by trying to lift that much weight. Medium
Otter suggested leaving the spool in one place and dragging the free end along the path.
It was generally acknowledged that this was a good idea. Medium otter began dragging the
cord, and the others followed behind.

The littlest otter looked around as they walked. The entire area of ground next to the
house was covered in bricks arranged in beautiful patterns. At the edge of the bricks,
over by the bushes, there was a small pond with a waterfall. The waterfall was built with
with small flat rocks about the size of the littlest otter's head, all of them square or
rectangle shaped. Around the edge of the pond were scattered small round river rocks of
various shapes and colors. Beyond the pond and waterfall were the bushes, and a tall
wooden fence with boards so close together you couldn't see through. As they approached
the entrance to the path beneath the bushes, the littlest otter could see that the cord
was becoming harder for Medium Otter to drag. Soon after they took the turn along the
fence, the difficulty became too much. Even when Small Otter helped pull, the cord was
just too difficult. Starfish Otter went to where the cord rounded the corner to the hidden
path, and saw that the cord was getting caught at the base of a bush. She tugged on it to
try and bring more of the cord around the corner, but the cord didn't move. So the otters
all went back to the giant spool to investigate. After tracing the path of the cable it
was clear that the cord had been tied in a tangle as it uncoiled. It took all of them
working together to untangle the mess so the cord could move freely again.

They were about to go back to pulling the cord through the bushes, when the littlest otter
had a thought, so he chattered to the others to wait. The littlest otter had some fondness
for the human invention of rope, which he had used in some of his games and Big Ideas. He
had seen the many problems that could come when a coil of rope was unwinding, or when a
long section of it became twisted. What if the cable got tangled again? If they started
pulling the cable again, it was likely to get tangled again.Then they would have to come
all the way back to the coil to untangle it. Maybe someone could stay here to untangle the
cord as it was unwinding. The others agreed that this was sensible, and so it was decided
that Small Otter and the littlest otter would stay to unwind the cable, Starfish Otter
would pull it around the corner so it didn't foul on the root of the bush, and Medium
Otter would keep tugging the end along the path to the large tents.

The rest of the cable task took a little time, but their plan worked. The littlest otter
and Small Otter had to deal with three different tangles, but each time they were able to
untwist the difficult bit and keep the flow moving. Once the one end was plugged into the
wall and the other into the dangling end of the tent lights, all the little lights in the
ceiling of the tent lit up the shadows in the rafters.

After this the otters all congratulated themselves, and made their way to the garage.
Since no one knew where any of the lanterns had been left, they decided the most practical
approach was to split up and each search different parts of the garage. The others
explained to the littlest otter that the lanterns were all about the same size as him. The
humans moved them around whenever they needed more light to see something because their
eyes don't work as well in the dark as otter eyes do. Each lantern had a red button that,
when pressed, made the lantern shine a bright light all around it. When the button was
pressed again, the light turned off. Anywhere in the garage that was dim or had shadows
would be a good place to look for lanterns.

They decided it was best for the littlest otter to take the corner of the garage by the
door for his searching spot, since that was the easiest place to not get lost. He started
by just making a patrol of his area to get an idea of what was there and how to navigate.
There was a human sized table with some things on it, but the littlest otter couldn't tell
what was up there, and there was no obvious way to get on top. Next to the table was a set
of metal shelves that went all the way to the ceiling. The shelves were not solid, but
made of small metal bars closely spaced, and they were piled high with boxes and tools and
pieces of wood cut to various sizes and shapes. Walking past the shelves put him in the
corner, where there was a floor lamp that went almost all the way to the ceiling. The lamp
cast light onto the ceiling that spread over much of the room, but the area around the
base of the lamp was surprisingly dark. On the other wall of the corner he saw that the
humans had stored all kinds of boxes all stacked together in a haphazard and inefficient
way.

First the littlest otter searched quite thoroughly under the table, reasoning that it was
the dimmest and darkest place in his corner of the room. He found six cans of paint, a
ruler, a strange contraption with a tank and dials on it, lots of sawdust, and a half
eaten peanut butter sandwich. But he could not see anything that looked like the lantern
described to him. So next he checked the bottom metal shelf. There he found a stack of
books next to a box of gray plastic figures, some of which had been painted in realistic
colors. The figures looked like tiny humans in armor, some of them wearing scary looking
helmets, some of them carrying chainsaws, and some holding elaborate books while pointing
dramatically. The littlest otter thought they looked very adventurous, and it made him
start thinking up stories about what brave things the characters must get up to. He almost
got distracted, but a noise in the far side of the garage brought him back to the present.
He looked to the noise and saw Medium Otter pushing a box out of his way. This gave the
littlest otter an idea! He started pulling the stack of books off the shelf and dragging
it over to the stack of boxes next to the lamp.

Now otters are not typically known for ability in climbing, but rivers are lined with so
many cliffs, boulders and steep rocky slopes that river otters have developed dexterous
paws and a keen instinct for how to place their feet when on a steep slope. Most young
otters are already proficient at scrambling up and down steep river slopes before they
first venture into the water itself.

And so the littlest otter had little trouble scrambling up on top of the pile of books,
and from there on top of another box, and so on until he was at the very top. This put him
catty-corner from the edge of the table. While otters might be quite capable climbers,
they are most certainly not very good at jumping. Fortunately the distance from the edge
of the boxes to the edge of the table was small, so a short hop and he felt the wood of
the table surface beneath his feet. Looking around he saw a tool with a sharp sawtoothed
metal disk, attached to a complicated device. And there, right next to the contraption was
a cylindrical object with a red button. He pushed the button and was blinded by the
resulting illumination. He quickly pushed the button again to turn it off. This was a very
practical place to put an extra light, since the area directly under the floor lamp did
not get much light from that lamp. Pleased with his discovery, he peered off the edge of
the table to check the progress of the other otters. Starfish Otter was sitting patiently
by the door with another of the lanterns, but Small Otter and Medium Otter were still
rummaging through their parts of the garage. The littlest otter thought about going to
help look in the other parts of the garage, but there were still so many interesting
things on the table that he hadn't explored yet.

He maneuvered around the large bladed contraption and found a clamp device. Experimenting,
he found that there was a lever that, when turned, made the clamp close and open. He
thought about how useful it would be for cracking particularly tough clams. Next to the
clamp was a thing which appeared to be a long metal finger. Moving a knob on the side
caused an extremely sharp artificial claw to slide out one end. The artificial claw was
bigger than his entire paw.

This struck the littlest otter as an extremely sensible thing for humans to keep around,
since humans don't have claws on their paws to help them scratch and cut things. He felt
that this must be the result of some very sensible advice given to the humans by their
otters. Right next to the artificial claw he found a container with a dozen more
artificial claws just like the one that slid out of the metal finger. This struck him as
another very sensible choice. Since artificial claws couldn't keep growing the way natural
claws do, they would eventually grow dull and need to be replaced. These otters were
really being quite helpful to their humans! They must be a wonderful pod.
Having explored the rest of the table, the littlest otter made his way back down the box
pile, carefully only letting the lantern drop a short distance at a time. By the time he
made it back to the door Small Otter was already there with a lantern, and Medium Otter
was not far behind.

The Pod celebrated the second of their tasks to be completed, and dragged all the lanterns
down to the tents. Once the lanterns were deposited underneath the main table, they
proceeded to the storage room.

The storage room was separate from the garage, but also on the ground floor. It contained
two large machines that humans use to wash and groom their artificial fur, and a pile of
random things that the humans needed from time to time, but didn't know how to store
properly. One of these things was a gray cylindrical object that the littlest otter had
never seen before. The other otters showed him how it was actually a long sticky tape
wrapped around and around in a spool. This was what they planned to use to attach the
tablecloths. This task turned out to be the easiest of the three. The tape was easily
acquired, and easily moved down to the tents. The four otters quickly set up a process
where Starfish Otter held the spool and tore off pieces about as long as her forearm,
Medium Otter stood on his back legs and passed them up to Small otter and the littlest
otter, who scrambled up the tables. The Small Otter would pull back the corner of the
tablecloth so that the littlest otter could shape the tape into a loop such that the
sticky side faced out in all directions. The littlest otter could then attach the loop to
the table, and the littlest otter could let the tablecloth down so it was caught and held
by the tape.

It took less than an hour to secure all the tablecloths to the tables in at least three
places, and while the otters were working through the routine, the littlest otter became
very familiar with the tape substance. As he worked it with his paws, a plan formed in his
mind. He became excited, but held all his excitement inside until the very last table was
completed, whereon he leapt to the ground and turned himself excitedly in a circle, and
declared to everyone who could hear that he had A Plan!

The one task that they had all put off was the task of cutting the hard woody flower
stems. And the littlest otter had a plan for quickly cutting all of them that might just
work! He outlined his plan for the other otters, twice turning himself in a circle to
emphasize his point, and the other otters all considered the plan. The littlest otter
waited silently while the Pod discussed his plan, and finally it was generally agreed that
it was a good plan that was worth trying.

After this Small Otter was dispatched to retrieve several small round rocks from the pool,
and the littlest otter was sent to acquire the pack of spare artificial claws from where
he had discovered them on the tall wooden table in the garage. After all the materials
were acquired, the four otters constructed their first prototype. Small Otter held one of
the stones by the top and the bottom while the littlest otter held one of the artificial
claws to the stone. The entire claw was twice as long as Small Otters front arm, and
without a metal finger to hold it, it was very scary. Medium Otter tore strips of the
sticky gray tape and wrapped them around the stone and the steel claw until they were
firmly attached with the sharp part of the blade sticking out just below the bottom curve
of the rock.

Once the first implement was constructed, the littlest otter demonstrated how the
contraptions might be used. He claimed the smallest of the stones (since he was the
smallest of the otters) and placed three flower stems against a flat square slate rock
borrowed from the waterfall. Using the rock with an artificial claw attached, he smashed
the rock down upon the flower stems using the exact same motion he would use for smashing
open a clam. It took only three strikes, less than two seconds, and the flower stems were
cleanly and efficiently cut. The other otters were very curious, and wanted to see how
this solution worked for even more stems. So he repeated it for six flowers, and then for
nine. The nine flower stems were more than he could handle at once, and he barely managed
them after eight or nine blows of the stone. Nevertheless, the otters decided to try
twelve stems all at once, and the littlest otter had to let several of the stems get
shoved to the side just so he could sever the few that would fit beneath the blade.
After this the three otters of the Pod consulted, and decided that the littlest otter's
solution was very robust to even difficult and challenging conditions, and therefore was
the most practical and sensible solution to cutting flowers! They finished crafting stones
with artificial claws, each crafted to be the ideal size for that otter. Small Otter
continuously fetched new stems for the other otters, while Medium Otter and the littlest
otter chopped flower stems against flat gray stones from the waterfall. Starfish Otter
floated on her back in the pool, smashing her rock against a flat stone placed on her
belly. All of the otters were extremely cautious, and took far more time than they would
for the same amount of clams. Artificial claws were very dangerous, and the extra caution
was clearly the most sensible approach to the task.

It was well after dark by the time all the extensive collection of flowers was trimmed and
placed back into the vases intended for them. Medium Otter was exhausted to the point of
falling asleep, while Small Otter and Starfish Otter were left with sore paws, but were
extremely satisfied. The littlest otter was exhausted over his whole body from swinging a
stone that was noticeably larger than he would usually choose. But all the other otters
were happy with how well he had helped. Even though he had a really good idea, he still
pitched in and did a lot of the hard work as well, and the Pod valued otters that worked
as part of the team. He was also, it was generally agreed, very good at accepting other
otters' ideas and working as part of a team.

Small Otter helped Medium Otter up the stairs to curl up. But Starfish Otter remained at
the bottom of the stairs, holding her pink starfish and chattering with the littlest otter
about various bits of exciting anecdote from the day. Once they were alone and there was a
convenient break in the conversation, Starfish Otter mentioned how much the Pod
appreciated having the littlest otter around, and would he be at all interested in hanging
around the Pod more often. The littlest otter mentioned that he really enjoyed the company
of the other otters and that he didn't really have any place to go, but that he also
didn't have anywhere to stay other than the river down the hill. Starfish Otter
acknowledged that this was reasonable, and invited him to stay with them in the house for
a while and decide if he liked being there or not.

Of course the littlest otter accepted this offer, and Starfish Otter took him upstairs to
where the Pod slept. Medium Otter then went to spend the night with the woman to keep her
company, and hold her hand so she would not float away. But the littlest otter curled up
in the Pod's sleeping spot, and for the first time in almost a year, another otter held
his paw and he didn't sleep alone.
